# Nx.Random

Pseudo-random number generators.

Unlike the stateful pseudo-random number generators (PRNGs)
that users of most programming languages and numerical libraries
may be accustomed to, Nx random functions require an explicit
PRNG key to be passed as a first argument (see [below](#module-the-key-to-understanding-nx-random-keys) for more info). That key is defined by
an `Nx.Tensor` composed of 2 unsigned 32-bit integers, usually
generated by the `Nx.Random.key/1` function:

    iex> Nx.Random.key(12)
    #Nx.Tensor<
      u32[2]
      [0, 12]
    >

Or for example:

    iex> Nx.Random.key(System.os_time())

This key can then be used in any of Nx’s random number generation
routines:

    iex> key = Nx.Random.key(12)
    iex> {uniform, _new_key} = Nx.Random.uniform(key)
    iex> uniform
    #Nx.Tensor<
      f32
      0.7691127
    >

Now, when generating a new random number, you pass the `new_key`
to get a different number.

The function in this module also have a `*_split` variant, which
is used when the key has been split before hand.

## Design and Context

In short, Nx's PRNGs are based on a Threefry counter PRNG
associated to a functional array-oriented splitting model.
To summarize, among other requirements, Nx's PRNG aims to:

1. Ensure reproducibility

2. Parallelize well, both in terms of vectorization
   (generating array values) and multi-replica, multi-core
   computation. In particular it should not use sequencing
   constraints between random function calls.

> ### The key to understanding Nx.Random keys {: .info}
>
> Most Elixir users might be used to not having to keep
> track of the PRNG state while their code executes.
>
> While this works fine when we're dealing with the CPU,
> we can think of keeping track of the `Nx.Random` key as a way to
> isolate multiple GPU users, much like the PRNG on different
> BEAM nodes is isolated. Each key gets updated in its own
> isolated sequence of calls, and thus we don't get different
> results for each process using the same PRNG as we would
> in the normal situation.
>
> The fact that the key is a parameter for the functions also
> helps with the caching and operator fusion of the computational
> graphs. Because the PRNG functions themselves are stateless,
> compilers can take advantage of this to further improve execution times.