# Ecto.Schema



## embedded_schema/1

Defines an embedded schema with the given field definitions.

An embedded schema is either embedded into another
schema or kept exclusively in memory. For this reason,
an embedded schema does not require a source name and
it does not include a metadata field.

Embedded schemas by default set the primary key type
to `:binary_id` but such can be configured with the
`@primary_key` attribute.

`belongs_to/3` associations may be defined inside of
embedded schemas. However, any association nested inside
of an embedded schema won't be persisted to the database
when calling `c:Ecto.Repo.insert/2` or `c:Ecto.Repo.update/2`.

## schema/2

Defines a schema struct with a source name and field definitions.

An additional field called `__meta__` is added to the struct for storing
internal Ecto state. This field always has a `Ecto.Schema.Metadata` struct
as value and can be manipulated with the `Ecto.put_meta/2` function.

## field/3

Defines a field on the schema with given name and type.

The field name will be used as is to read and write to the database
by all of the built-in adapters unless overridden with the `:source`
option.

## Options

  * `:default` - Sets the default value on the schema and the struct.

    The default value is calculated at compilation time, so don't use
    expressions like `DateTime.utc_now` or `Ecto.UUID.generate` as
    they would then be the same for all records: in this scenario you can use
    the `:autogenerate` option to generate at insertion time.

    The default value is validated against the field's type at compilation time
    and it will raise an ArgumentError if there is a type mismatch. If you cannot
    infer the field's type at compilation time, you can use the
    `:skip_default_validation` option on the field to skip validations.

    Once a default value is set, if you send changes to the changeset that
    contains the same value defined as default, validations will not be performed
    since there are no changes after all.

  * `:source` - Defines the name that is to be used in the database for this field.
    This is useful when attaching to an existing database. The value should be
    an atom. This is a last minute translation before the query goes to the database.
    All references within your Elixir code must still be to the field name,
    such as in association foreign keys.

  * `:autogenerate` - a `{module, function, args}` tuple for a function
    to call to generate the field value before insertion if value is not set.
    A shorthand value of `true` is equivalent to `{type, :autogenerate, []}`.

  * `:read_after_writes` - When true, the field is always read back
    from the database after inserts, updates, and deletes.

    For relational databases, this means the RETURNING option of those
    statements is used. For this reason, MySQL does not support this
    option and will raise an error if a schema is inserted/updated with
    read after writes fields.

  * `:virtual` - When true, the field is not persisted to the database.
    Notice virtual fields do not support `:autogenerate` nor
    `:read_after_writes`.

  * `:primary_key` - When true, the field is used as part of the
    composite primary key.

  * `:load_in_query` - When false, the field will not be loaded when
    selecting the whole struct in a query, such as `from p in Post, select: p`.
    Defaults to `true`.

  * `:redact` - When true, it will display a value of `**redacted**`
    when inspected in changes inside a `Ecto.Changeset` and be excluded
    from inspect on the schema. Defaults to `false`.

  * `:skip_default_validation` - When true, it will skip the type validation
    step at compile time.

  * `:writable` - Defines when a field is allowed to be modified. Must be one of
    `:always`, `:insert`, or `:never`. If set to `:always`, the field can be modified
    by any repo operation. If set to `:insert`, the field can be inserted but cannot
    be further modified, even in an upsert. If set to `:never`, the field becomes
    read only. Defaults to `:always`.

## timestamps/1

Generates `:inserted_at` and `:updated_at` timestamp fields.

The fields generated by this macro will automatically be set to
the current time when inserting and updating values in a repository.

## Options

  * `:inserted_at` - the Ecto schema name of the field for insertion times or `false`
  * `:updated_at` - the Ecto schema name of the field for update times or `false`
  * `:inserted_at_source` - the name of the database column for insertion times or `false`
  * `:updated_at_source` - the name of the database column for update times or `false`
  * `:type` - the timestamps type, defaults to `:naive_datetime`.
  * `:autogenerate` - a module-function-args tuple used for generating
    both `inserted_at` and `updated_at` timestamps

All options can be pre-configured by setting `@timestamps_opts`.

## embeds_one/4

Indicates an embedding of a schema.

For options and examples see documentation of `embeds_one/3`.

## embeds_many/4

Indicates an embedding of many schemas.

For options and examples see documentation of `embeds_many/3`.